[MUSIC]
This lecture we'll talk about
the structure of an embedded system.
The hardware structure specifically,
look at the different components.
A very generic view and
we'll talk about some of them.
The main component, the microcontroller
we'll talk more about in the next lecture.
So, here's my high level generic view
of what an embedded system looks like.
So if you look at an embedded system, it's
got to take data from the outside world
and then it's gotta output
data to the outside world.
So it has, first for
the receiving data from the outside world,
it has a set of sensors.
So these sensors they receive
information from the outside
in many different ways because there
are lots of different types of sensors.
The most basic type of sensor would be a
button, push button, something like that.
And that's receiving data
that somebody types in.
You know, zero, one is binary.
Then there's also, for instance,
you could receive sound information like
the microphone in front of me,
or actually connected to here.
And that receives audio information.
There's also video,
like the camera in front of me,
or just a regular light sensor
that receives video information.
There's all kinds of sensors.
Touch screens, right?
You can receive touch information
through a touch screen.
So, there's a lot off different
sensors that an embedded system
can receive input from.
So that input comes in to a set of sensors
and it's gonna go into the core of
the system and in the end, once the system
has decided, process that information,
decide what to do with that information,
it needs to cause some results.
An effect to happen in the outside world.
So that's done through the actuators
at the other side, the actuators,
they cause events to happen in the world.
So those might be something like an LED,
a light, like there's a light
flashing in front of me.
That LED is an output actuator.
And it goes off and on to indicate
probably that it's recording, okay?
But there are other actuators too, like
for instance, the camera in front of me.
It's got motors inside that control
the lens to control the focus.
So those motors, those are actuators.
Those are outputs of the system.
So the system will drive those motors and
those will be considered actuators and
make them.
Pull the lens in and
out and things like this.
So, lots of different types of actuators.
Speakers are actuators, they output sound.
Lights are actuators, they output light.
The screen is an actuator, it also
outputs light but in a more interesting,
I don't know if you call it interesting,
but in a more detailed format.
More complex format a light,
so a screen is an output.
So there are lots of different actuators.
So if you look at the embedded system,
it's in between there, right?
It receives data from the sensors,
it does something with the data, and
then it outputs to the actuators to
make something happen in the real world
as a result of the data that it received.
So the interface components of
the sensors and the actuators.
Now in the middle of the system,
the center of the whole thing is
that microcontroller in the center.
Now, the microcontroller we will talk
about in the next lecture in more detail,
and actually a lot of this class is
specializational focus on microcontrollers
and how to program them, but there are
other components that are commonly inside
the core of an embedded system as well,
and you see two of them right there.
IP and FPGA, we'll talk about
those in a little bit right now.
So, IP stands for intellectual property,
or IP Core people call them, and
intellectual property core is
basically a predesigned component,
typically a premanufactured component so
an integrated circuit,
a chip that performs one function.
When I say one function,
maybe a set of functions, but
all related to one particular task.
So it's a chip that is not
general purpose programmable.
It's a core that just performs some small
set of functions that are all related.
So these things can be very useful.
They're cheap in high volume.
So what that means is,
high volume means manufacturing volume.
So if you have some very common task
that's performed by a lot of systems,
like say you got a cellphone, right?
And then that cell phone, let's say,
it's very common to perform some
type of audio filtering task, okay?
So all of our cell phones have to do
this audio filtering, right, let's say.
So you might make one of these IP cores,
which performs filtering,
and then it would be high volume,
because there are many millions
of cell phones that are for sale,
and so you manufacture many of them.
So there's a lot of work to
designing one of them and
it costs a lot if you want
to just fabricate one.
But when you're fabricating a high volume,
it's very cheap.
So these IP cores can be very valuable
when you have high volume production.
So they're useful for common tasks,
that's the best thing.
In order to make sure you get high volume.
You basically wanna have,
you wanna use them for very common tasks.
Tasks that happen over and
over because there's a lot of need.
So if it's just a one-off if this is a
design, some kind of function that's only
done in this one system, then you would
almost certainly not make an IP core and
make a special purpose chip just for that.
You wouldn't do that, but if it's
some common task that's done a lot.
So, for instance,
network controllers, right?
That's in a lot of systems.
Basically every Internet linked device has
some sort of network controller in it.
So that type of thing you
might implement as an IP core,
a dedicated piece of hardware which
just does IP control operations.
Audio, video codecs right, so
I'm coding audio and video, and
compressing it, decompressing it.
These are operations that perform
by lots and lots of IOT devices, so
this type of device, this type of
function you might put into an IP core.
Now these IP cores,
we're not designing them in this class,
that's outside of the scope of the class,
but when you're making an IOT System,
you definitely might
want to buy one of these.
So you'll look at a library, an online
library, of IP cores, find some vendor,
Texas Instruments, say, they sell a lot
of chips that do different things, and
you find the one that does
exactly what you want.
You say, well I'm doing MPEG encoding let
me find the TIM peg encoding chip, and
you find, you'll probably find 50 of them,
and you pick the one that you want,
and that's the core that you use.
So that's how we use these things.
We're buying them off the shelf, we're
not actually gonna be designing IP cores,
because that's too complex.
And they have to interact
with a microcontroller.
So remember that the microcontroller
is the center of all the action right?
So, it's connected to the IP cores and
it tells them when to do
what they need to do.
Right, so if an IP core is for
encoding video,
the microcontroller will say encode now,
right, encode this data now.
And when I say it will say that, it means,
I mean through the signals, so the wires
It will send the appropriate sequence of
input signals to trigger it to record.
And then the results may be the core
sets a signal high when it's completed.
And that goes back to the microcontroller.
The microcontroller knows okay the coding
is done, let me move on right.
So there's this conversation
between the micro controller and
the IP core that goes on.
And so you have to wire it appropriately
and we'll only touch on that.
Now another component that you
often find in IOT devices,
embedded devices in general,
are Field Programmable Gate Arrays.
Now, we will not be using Field
Programmable Gate Arrays in this class
because their complexity is basically
outside of the scope of the class,
but what they are, they're an interesting
thing and you should know what they are.
They're hardware.
They're integrated circuits,
they're chips.
Not programmable chips,
they're regular chips.
Not programmable in
the conventional sense, okay?
These things can be reconfigured,
essentially rewired to
perform different tasks.
So, let's say you need something
to do audio filtering.
So, you might configure
the FPGA to perform filtering.
So it's a hardware device that will
perform filtering because it's been wired
to do that.
But then you can rewire it,
reconfigure the device, to rewire it so
that it performs mpeg coding instead or
something like that.
So you can rewire this thing,
reconfigure it, so
that it can perform different tasks.
Now it's not programmable in the sense
of a general purpose processor,
you don't write code for it.
And as a result it's actually a lot faster
than a general purpose processor right.
You can get that same flexibility
with a general purpose processor.
You could run one program, or
another program,
you could do that with a processor but
you would do it with the FPGA if
possible because it's a lot faster.
It will execute a lot faster.
Because the software conversion step
we won't talk here that is skipped
if you directly in hardware using FPGA so
FPGAs have that advantage.
And no fabrication is needed.
So when you make an IP core and
you fabricate it as a chip.
You have to fabricate it.
You have to manufacture chips and
that's expensive.
So it only makes sense in high volume with
FPGAs you don't have to fabricate you just
reconfigure it through programming,
just connect it by USB to a computer and
you can rewire the thing.
So that's much more convenient and
cheaper, so if you have a one off
design you would implement in an FPGA
over some kind of an IP core.
Thank you.
>> [MUSIC]